>> I think many people
today don't know what
to believe anymore.
>> People are basically going
to [inaudible] what
really happened.
>> It felt like something
was watching me.
>> We weren't given
all the information,
we weren't told the
entire story.
[ Music ]
>> Since I was a little boy
fascinated with the Wizard of Oz
and witches, the good
witch and the bad witch,
tonight on Beyond Belief we're
going to talk to Leanne Marrama
about witchcraft because you
are a real practicing witch
aren't you?
>> Leanne Marrama: Yes, I am.
>> How did that happen?
You're not born a witch are you?
>> Leanne Marrama: Some people
feel that they are born a witch.
I feel I worked my way
into the way of witchcraft.
I always had some
different things about me
that made me a little more
unusual than the local kids.
I mean I'm the girl that brought
the Ouija board into junior high
so everyone could use it.
I was the one who ran around
in graveyards and a lot
of us do that, but I took it to
the next level because I could.
Not after a period of kind of
walking away from the craft.
I spent a lot of my years
becoming a secretary really
dumbing down my magic.
I kind of unpowered myself.
>> And you missed it didn't you?
>> Leanne Marrama: I missed it.
I missed it, I raised my
kids and I became a great mom
but something else kept
on calling out to me;
other faiths weren't
working for me.
I, you know, that's
what this is all
about this whole
witchcraft thing it's
about what you believe in and
how much you can take from it
and that's what life is about
and I didn't love my faith.
So, I went back to a more
earthy path, more magical path
and I claimed myself as a witch
and I learned and I studied
and that's how I became a
witch through hard work.
>> Hollywood has
destroyed the reputation
of a witch there's no question
because when I was a kid leading
into before I started doing
Coast to Coast, Leanne,
I thought witch people
were evil, satanic,
running around with
high hats and,
you know, brooms and doing --
>> Leanne Marrama:
-- that we do --
>> -- things and turning
kids into gingerbread.
>> Leanne Marrama: [Laughter]
>> How wrong I was.
>> Leanne Marrama: Yes, yes.
You were other than the high
hats and the kids, the kids
and gingerbread sometimes
that happens.
>> It's not my fault;
Hollywood did that.
>> Leanne Marrama: But on
a serious note we're just
like any other religion
except we dress different
or we talk different.
It's the unknown I
find is what fears.
So I want everyone to know
witches, we don't even believe
in the existence of the devil.
At least most witches I know
we don't worship the devil and,
in fact, we don't even worship,
we honor, we honor our gods
and in creation and we're very
connected with this earth.
>> Are you Wiccan?
>> Leanne Marrama: I would say
for me, no, I am not Wiccan.
I am a witch and I practice
a very Italian path.
My culture is Italian
so the word for witch
in Italian is strega [phonetic].
>> Strega.
>> Leanne Marrama: Strega.
>> What's an Italian witch?
>> Leanne Marrama: A strega.
>> She makes pasta.
Why?
>> Leanne Marrama: She
doesn't just make pasta.
An Italian witch we're very
homey, we're very different,
but we believe in justice.
Sometimes some people would
think an Italian witch may would
be a little darker
in the craft, but no,
we believe in justice
not so much curses.
We believe in family.
We believe in truth.
>> Halloween sets the stage
for my favorite season
because it's Halloween,
Thanksgiving, Christmas,
New Years, it doesn't
get any better.
For witches, you know,
as many of us, you know,
run around in our
little costumes
and go trick-or-treating and
carving pumpkins and stuff,
what do witches do
around Halloween?
>> Leanne Marrama: Well,
witches, we celebrate Halloween
but we don't actually
call it Halloween.
>> What do you call it?
>> Leanne Marrama: We call
it Salween [phonetic].
>> Salween?
>> Leanne Marrama: Salween.
It's a Celtic word.
>> Okay. What it's mean?
>> Leanne Marrama: Every
culture does have a Halloween
or a Salween and it's a time
in which we honor our dead.
Salween is the time when
the dead walk among us.
It's also considered
the last harvest.
It is our New Year.
We celebrate our hard work.
>> Oh, you do.
>> Leanne Marrama: Yes.
>> Okay.
>> Leanne Marrama: We celebrate,
we celebrate with love,
we celebrate with passion,
and we also honor our dead.
Now Halloween being a time
that when the witches walk
among us is a time when we, oh,
we just welcome in all of those
who have gone, that's the time
when I really, really
remember my grandparents
and in Salem we hold
festivals --
>> -- so it's pretty emotional?
>> Leanne Marrama:
Oh, it is emotional.
We cry and we laugh
and we rejoice.
It's the closing of the year.
It's a mark of what
did you do this year?
What did you do?
What do you have
for your harvest?
It's the time for
you to really examine
and look did you work hard?
Did you do it yourself?
Be proud, celebrate, rejoice and
then welcome in your ancestors,
your great grandparents,
your parents who have gone,
the people you love;
that's a time when you bring
out their pictures and
you celebrate and you eat
with them much like the day of
the dead, which is November 1st.
>> All Saints Day in
the Catholic Church.
>> Leanne Marrama:
All Saints Day.
>> Were you born a witch
or did you develop this?
I mean were your
parents witches?
>> Leanne Marrama: I believe I
was born with magical powers.
I believe I had gifts.
Special gifts, but I believe
my gifts are not exceptional
to anyone else.
I believe we all possess a
little psychic ability but, no,
my faith wasn't the craft.
My parents were Catholics.
I was raised as a Catholic
but there was always something
different that I would do.
I, you know, there's a saying
that all faith is magical.
You can find magic in every
faith, but let me explain.
My parents, my parents
are very grounded people.
My mother was a stockbroker
and my father was a carpenter,
you know, just regular people
and it was a shock to them
that I came out of
the broom closet --
>> -- literally.
>> Leanne Marrama: And became a
witch literally, busted it open.
>> Did you ever jump
on the broom?
>> Leanne Marrama: There
were moments where I have.
[Laughter]
>> Do you have a flying broom?
>> Leanne Marrama: I
don't have a flying broom.
What the broom is for
actually, the broom is
for cleaning just
like everything else.
>> And cleansing.
>> Leanne Marrama: Cleansing,
opening up sacred space.
African cultures use it
to open up a wedding.
You jump over that broom
because it's representative
of day-to-day tasks.
The broom is also a
sign of protection.
>> The Jewish people
break plates.
>> Leanne Marrama: Yes, they do.
>> Mazel tov.
>> Leanne Marrama:
Mazel tov, why not?
>> I went to a Jewish
wedding once.
I couldn't believe
what was going on.
Everybody was breaking a plate.
>> Leanne Marrama: Doesn't it in
some ways remind you of magic?
>> It does.
>> Leanne Marrama: It does.
I detect a New England
accent from you.
>> Leanne Marrama: Absolutely.
It's very thick and very strong.
I'm from Boston, Mass, and I
work in Salem, Massachusetts.
>> Ah.
>> Leanne Marrama: The
witch city of the world.
>> Would you have been burned at
the stake in that time period?
>> Leanne Marrama: Well, they
didn't burn witches in Salem
at that time period but they
sure would have just, yeah,
they would have found
a way to get rid of me.
I would have sat in
that dunking chair.
>> Totally unjustifiable.
>> Leanne Marrama: Completely
unjustifiable because witches,
a real witch will not
hurt anyone and just
like every faith you've got
good people and bad people.
I know some bad witches
because they're bad people.
>> Of course.
There's always a bad
apple in the basket.
>> Leanne Marrama: Always and
bad people are just people.
It's not about their faith just
like all kinds of religions.
You know they let the
negative few rule the masses.
No, I don't agree with that.
I think that inside
of everyone's belief there
should be respect and honor
and the first thing is love.
That's what this religion has --
>> -- I'm looking
at you, Leanne,
and I don't see any warts.
>> Leanne Marrama: No.
>> Do you cackle?
>> Leanne Marrama: I do cackle.
>> You can do a witch cackle?
>> Leanne Marrama: Yeah.
>> Would you do one for me?
>> Leanne Marrama: [Cackling]
>> See. That sounds
kind of evil to me.
>> Leanne Marrama: It is, but
it sounds evil but it isn't.
>> Are you doing it for fun?
>> Leanne Marrama:
Cackling is for fun.
Why does anyone cackle?
Don't just about
everybody cackle?
>> Oh, I don't.
>> Leanne Marrama: You do
when you laugh hard enough.
>> I don't know.
>> Leanne Marrama: Come on.
Maybe you need a good laugh.
>> I've never been on a date
with a girl who cackled.
>> Leanne Marrama:
You're missing something
really awesome.
>> In the middle
of a restaurant,
can you imagine that laugh.
Do it again.
>> Leanne Marrama: [Cackling].
>> You'd be the hit of the --
>> Leanne Marrama:
-- and I snort too.
>> You do?
>> Leanne Marrama: Which has
nothing to do with witchcraft.
It just means I'm
having a good time.
>> Okay, so witch, I
mean do you do spells?
>> Leanne Marrama: Yes, I do.
>> And curses?
>> Leanne Marrama:
I do do spells.
>> Have you ever done a curse?
Be honest.
>> Leanne Marrama:
I have done a curse.
Absolutely.
I want to show you
something for curses.
>> And why did you do a curse?
Tell me that story.
>> Leanne Marrama: I did a
curse because I was justified.
I was justified in that curse.
When you do a curse or a hex,
you've got to be justified.
You can't, you can't harm
someone just because they,
you know, cut you
off in traffic.
>> They tried to hurt you.
>> Leanne Marrama: This is
somebody who hurt my family,
hurt my children, God help
you if you harm my children.
Any mother out there would --
>> -- I come from that school
too, but there are a lot
of people who say
forgive and forget.
>> Leanne Marrama: I understand.
I do after I let karma.
On some level, there's
question of karma,
but sometimes karma
needs a little help.
>> So what kind of a
curse did you conjure up
and what happened
to this person?
>> Leanne Marrama: I, and
this is a lesson for everyone,
I cursed somebody to go away.
>> All right.
>> Leanne Marrama: To go --
>> -- and what's the
definition of go away?
Go away to me means
drop over dead.
>> Leanne Marrama: No.
I would never harm
anyone to die.
Bad people need to live because
that's the worst suffering.
>> So just move,
get out of the way.
>> Leanne Marrama:
Just go out of my way.
Go, just go, get
lost, and they did
and then something
awful happened.
I missed them.
[Laughter]
>> You did miss them?
>> Leanne Marrama: I did so.
>> Anyway what's this?
Hold that up for the camera.
>> Leanne Marrama: This is
a voodoo doll, a poppet.
It is a way, it's a form of
sympathetic magic in which
like is drawn to like.
An image of a person.
>> Let me see this.
Can I hold it?
>> Leanne Marrama:
Yeah, he looks loving.
>> There he is.
So what do you do with this?
>> Leanne Marrama: Okay.
I infuse it with the energy of
a person who has really, really,
for me to bring out the dolly,
you've had to really
piss me off.
Mostly what I do I can show you,
what I'll do is I'll
bind that person.
I'll say I bind you from
harming me but I also bind you
from harming yourself.
What I do is I tie
this person up.
>> Ouch!
>> Leanne Marrama: I stuff
them and then I send them away.
Now, maybe they'll find a better
day without harming others,
but what I do is I take
that negative energy
and I transform it
and I get rid of it.
I get rid of those
people that harm you,
get rid of them right now.
>> Do you need a piece
of the guy's hair?
Let's see this little thing.
>> Leanne Marrama: Sometimes
you can put a picture or a piece
of someone's hair and why
does it have to be a guy?
Sometimes women need it too.
>> All right.
It physically has
to have the person?
>> Leanne Marrama: It can.
It doesn't always.
You can start your spell by
naming it somebody you don't
like and you put that,
you make it your Gollum,
you make it your poppet.
You say it and you create
it into that person.
>> Do you have to
put the picture
of the person on the side?
>> Leanne Marrama: The
more information you have
about a person to put in a
poppet is the better you have.
>> All right.
Whatever happened to
the old karma what goes
around comes around?
>> Leanne Marrama: Karma is a
very Middle Eastern concept.
I do, I do believe in it on
some level, but I also believe
that with that being said about
karma that doesn't mean you have
to take anyone's crap.
>> So it sounds like to me
with this particular object -
>> Leanne Marrama:
It's a serious spell.
>> This is darn serious -
>> Leanne Marrama:
-- it's serious.
>> And it's no nonsense and
honestly it's not friendly.
It's kind of vindictive
isn't it?
>> Leanne Marrama: It is.
It absolutely is, but
how would you react
if somebody let's say -
>> -- harmed my family?
>> Leanne Marrama:
Harmed your family?
>> I would take them out.
>> Leanne Marrama: Yes, and
this is how you take them out
and what I do is
I push them away
and I want them to
learn a lesson.
So what I say is I
say, I don't want
to use anyone's names right now.
>> No. So maybe if you
want to say Producer Tom.
No, no. Let's not do it to Tom.
>> Leanne Marrama: Tom.
I would say spirit
of the poppet.
>> Call him Jay.
>> Leanne Marrama: Some guy
Jay is going to have a bad day.
Spirit of Jay whoever you
are you have caused harm,
you have harmed my business,
you've hurt my house
the way I feed myself.
Now I make you unable
to touch it.
So I tape the hand together.
What is mine.
I choose that you do
not walk in my space.
>> Is Jay grimacing right now?
>> Leanne Marrama: Well,
he can't walk in my space.
So I don't know anyone Jay so
I'm not really harming anyone.
Then you pin them all up
and you just get rid of it.
I wouldn't hang on to
anything like this.
I would either send
it down the river.
>> I don't want to
get rid of him.
I don't want to go that far.
>> Leanne Marrama: You don't
get rid of it like kill them.
You get rid of it
like you say go.
The best curse ever I'll
say is to tell someone
to go be great somewhere else.
That's just I don't want
them whatever their great is
around me.
>> Do you do nice
things to people?
>> Leanne Marrama:
Damn straight I do.
>> Like what?
>> Leanne Marrama:
Like love and healing
because that's what I believe
this whole world is about.
>> Let me hold this
little poppet up.
>> Leanne Marrama: Now that's
to draw in love and healing,
you know, colors
are very magical.
Pink is generally used
for love, friendship.
>> So this is the opposite
of what that one is?
>> Leanne Marrama: That is.
That's because you want
somebody close to you.
This makes someone go away,
which I think is a curse.
>> This makes them calm.
>> Leanne Marrama: That makes
them calm, which is a blessing.
>> Let's take a phone call here.
Let's take one of our
phone calls from one
of our very avid viewers.
>> Leanne, I would like
to know the difference
between spells and incantations.
>> Leanne Marrama: Okay, great.
>> All right.
We were just talking
about spells.
>> Leanne Marrama: That's great.
A spell is like a prayer, okay,
and a spell will facilitate
what you want bring it
out what you need, all right?
It reminds me of a prayer,
it reminds me of a blessing
or sometimes not so much
a blessing depending
on what it is.
An incantation tends to
have the same kind of energy
where it brings you
something you want.
You ask the universe for
something and you get it,
but incantations you generally
use with chants and mantras
where you would repeat
to bring about.
>> The same goal?
>> Leanne Marrama:
An incantation
to bring something in, but
you're bringing something in
and in this case at times
people use incantations a lot
to conjure spirits,
to draw in the energy
of a powerful deity or a person.
And that is what that is
for, conjuring spirits.
>> You have a ball
every year, don't you?
It's called the Salem
Witch's Ball.
>> Leanne Marrama:
I am thrilled.
>> What do they do?
>> Leanne Marrama: We
have not just a ball.
We have a series of events and
I am fortunate to be a part
of what's known as the festival
of the dead, which
is phenomenal.
>> What is that?
>> Leanne Marrama: Oh, it is a
month-long series of psychics,
of events, parties
and celebrations
because remember
this is our New Year.
>> This is it.
>> Leanne Marrama: This is it.
This is the big one
and everybody comes
from all across the world.
We have people from Japan
and China and all of Europe
that come to this event.
Well, the witch's ball -
>> -- you dress up?
>> Leanne Marrama:
Oh, do I dress up.
I have fun.
Yeah, everyone dresses
up and this year's theme
of the witch's ball is, well,
it depends on the theme
of the witch's ball.
The theme of the witch's ball
this year is about familiars
and a familiar is your
loving pet that provides you
with magic and energy.
>> You bring the pet with you?
>> Leanne Marrama: No.
We're going to dress up
like different animals
and not furry or creepy like.
I'm serious.
This year at the ball -
>> -- like a lion?
>> Leanne Marrama: Yeah.
Some people will be lions,
some people will be ravens,
some people will be cats.
>> And everybody does this?
Are you masked?
>> Leanne Marrama: Your choice,
but yes, I am masked every year.
I am masked until midnight.
>> A guy witch is he a warlock?
Is that what they call them?
>> Leanne Marrama: Being
called, well, warlock, yes.
A guy witch can be called
a warlock and many people,
I don't know they seem
to be very confused.
Men can be called whatever
they want in the craft.
Some choose to be called
witches and some choose
to be called warlocks.
Personally I just think
warlock is way sexier.
>> I do too.
If I were a guy witch, I
would want to be a warlock.
>> Leanne Marrama: Yeah,
you would be a warlock.
>> There was a warlock in
Bewitched, wasn't there?
>> Leanne Marrama: Yes, there
was and sometimes people feel
that the word warlock
they don't understand,
they have to learn the history.
The word warlock means
traitor and a lot
of the witches they seem to,
they are afraid of the word
and I don't blame them
because for years,
for years we've all heard this
history of warlock means traitor
but no one ever did a
little extra research.
Warlock actually means
traitor to the church.
So if you would like to know
what we are, we are in a way -
>> -- traitors to the church.
>> Leanne Marrama: -- traitors
and we did leave the church.
>> A lot of Christians probably
would not be happy with you -
>> Leanne Marrama:
-- no, they are not.
>> They don't understand
that you are God-loving
people aren't you?
>> Leanne Marrama: We
are God-loving people.
We worship just our
way, our style,
we don't mean to harm anyone.
What we want to do is to
celebrate our faith and we want
to be respected just
like everybody else.
>> Tell me about the
good old witch's coven.
>> Leanne Marrama: I
have a wonderful coven.
I love every single one of
them and I can honestly say
with pride I run my coven with,
Christian Day is a
very well-known -
>> -- I know Christian.
He has been on my show.
>> Leanne Marrama: He's a
great guy, he's a good guy,
and it's with a family.
We are truly like a family.
We eat dinner together,
we travel together
and we worship together.
So it's a lot like
going to church.
>> He loves what he does.
>> Leanne Marrama: He
absolutely loves what he does
and he does it well and
his events are spectacular
and he's a great
person to run the coven
with because he's magical.
He has a great connection
with the dead.
>> Is he good for the
witchcraft industry?
>> Leanne Marrama:
Christian Day is not just good
for the witchcraft industry,
I think he is the
witchcraft industry.
He's phenomenal.
He is, he's very
good you know why?
Because he pushes envelopes.
I like change, I
like difference.
If witchcraft as a religion
of faith and we have
so many different, we
have different traditions
and different thoughts, if
we do not grow and change,
we'll be doomed to die.
So, what we have to do is
we do we have to be updated,
we have to constantly
be on our toes
and I think Christian
challenges on some level society
because he is different.
>> Yeah, he is a great witch.
What are these candles for?
>> Leanne Marrama: All right.
We have two amazing
candles here.
This is the conjured
spirits candle and for me I
like this definitely
on Halloween, Salween,
on Salween this candle will
be lit on my personal alter.
It is for necromancy.
Necromancy is like honestly is
the art of spirit conjuration,
there's that word to conjure.
It's to draw in other spirits
for help or assistance, okay,
so who would I conjure?
Would I conjure, who
would you conjure?
>> Does it have to
be somebody dead?
>> Leanne Marrama: It has to be
because that's what this is for.
>> I would want my
dad to show up.
>> Leanne Marrama: Okay, and
he would help you, right?
>> Sure.
>> Leanne Marrama: Because a
lot of people believe in going
to a higher power and I do
every once in a while I go
to the source, you know,
whatever you want to call God,
you know, God, Goddess, the
universe, the force of love,
but sometimes I think the
little things when it's dealing
with little things I'll call my
grandparents or in this case I'd
like to call my dear friend,
Shawn Poorer [phonetic]
into the room and I'll
do the spell right here.
>> Okay.
>> Leanne Marrama: All right,
okay, on winds of breath
to realms of death
by blood and bone
and to cold bronze blade aid
my cause on oh darken shade.
So I'm going to summon
my friend, Shawn,
here into this candle
and to this room
to help me with this interview.
>> Okay.
>> Leanne Marrama:
And to bless us all.
He was a fabulous which so
I summon you into this room
to help me with my magic and
to bless everyone out there.
God bless you all.
>> How do you know he shows up?
>> Leanne Marrama: I feel him.
So I just, you know, when
you've lost somebody in life -
>> -- you're getting emotional.
>> Leanne Marrama: Yeah, I am.
>> Why?
>> Leanne Marrama: He was
just a very, very special man
and he would have loved this and
he would have loved your show.
He would have loved
you, you know,
he believed in the difference
of magic and that's one thing
about witchcraft and being in
the coven to go back to that.
They are your family, these
people are my brothers.
I'm fortunate to have
amazing friends, you know,
that are filled with magic.
I have Laurie Stestapholous
[phonetic],
I have the people just
really phenomenal friends;
they are my brothers and my
sisters and I know most witches
out there you all feel
that way about your coven.
>> Now, if you blow
it out, what happens?
Shawn goes away?
>> Leanne Marrama: You're
not going to blow it out,
and no, it does not go away.
People do not go away.
If you do not go away in
death, you do not go away
with the snuffing of a candle.
>> How long do you let it burn?
>> Leanne Marrama: Well, I light
it a little bit every day you
know what I mean?
>> Just a little bit.
>> Leanne Marrama: That would
be a 7-day candle for me
and I would take a little
bit every day and burn it
and we do not blow out candles.
We pinch it out.
>> Ouch.
>> Leanne Marrama:
It doesn't hurt.
>> It doesn't hurt?
>> Leanne Marrama:
It doesn't hurt.
>> And there it goes
and there goes Shawn.
>> Leanne Marrama: Yeah.
>> What's this one for?
>> Leanne Marrama: This
is for spirit guides
and there are times when
you really want to connect
with the softer side of
friends and family that are gone
and we all have spirit guides.
We all have this energy
guardian angel thing,
this one thing that's
dedicated to us
and sometimes we need help.
>> Hold that up a
little higher, please.
>> Leanne Marrama: Sometimes we
need help and sometimes you need
to call in your spirit guide.
>> And we all have
spirit guides don't we?
>> Leanne Marrama: Yes.
Yes, we absolutely do.
They are our guardian
angels, they are our light,
and I want everyone
here and everyone
out there to be protected.
If you're watching this,
may your spirit guide
give you great guidance.
May they offer you strength
and sometimes you need to just
like for your spirit
guides to say thank you,
thank you for the safe
trip out to Colorado.
The strongest bonds death cannot
tear for I know you love me
and will always be there.
Please share your guidance
and hear my prayer.
>> And up comes the
spirit guide.
>> Leanne Marrama: And
you work the candle.
You look at the flame,
look at that deep part
of the flame and
you talk to them.
You say spirit guide, guide me.
May my return trip be safe.
May everyone here in the studio,
may George be blessed
with great tidings.
I summon all of our
spirit guides
to give us love,
wisdom and strength.
That's what you do.
>> Now, can somebody do
this and not be a witch?
>> Leanne Marrama: Absolutely.
It's, people call it conjuring
spell work, but it comes
down to one thing the most
powerful thing in the world all
of us have is prayer and love.
You put those two things
together you're unstoppable.
It's what gives you energy.
>> So when little ones dress
up in costumes for Halloween.
>> Leanne Marrama: Yes, they do.
>> And maybe they
come to your house
and you give them their candy.
>> Leanne Marrama:
So much candy.
>> What are you dressed as?
>> Leanne Marrama: Okay.
Those are two different things.
You're talking about Halloween.
>> Go ahead.
I'll let you put that out again.
>> Leanne Marrama: Okay,
thank you for your blessings.
All right sometimes I
might want to be fun
and dress like something -
>> -- exotic?
>> Leanne Marrama:
Exotic and fun
for the kids, this
is for the kids.
I'll dress up like
a gorilla if I have
to to make them laugh, you know?
There's a magic, there is
some simple magic and joy
that comes out of Halloween.
It's sad when you
can't appreciate it.
It's candy.
People are giving away free
candy and there's a trust.
That's what the magic
of Halloween -
>> -- there is a trust.
>> Leanne Marrama: It's a trust.
I'm sending my kids because I
am a mother, sending my kids
to your house and you're
going to feed them.
>> There have been some
sickos though; you know that.
>> Leanne Marrama: Yes,
and that is unfortunate.
That -
>> -- that is where
you bring out that.
>> Leanne Marrama: This.
Sickos that hurt children.
There's a trust in Halloween,
and I want to be a
part of that magic.
You know, I don't -
>> -- are you always around the
Salem area when this happens?
>> Leanne Marrama: I am.
I'm very, very into
the Salem area
and sometimes I've missed
Halloweens with my kids,
which was sad, because
I'm a working witch
which is different.
I run my own events in Salem,
I run my own stuff, but -
>> -- do you get a
lot of tourists there?
>> Leanne Marrama:
So many tourists
and let me tell you every year
Salem hosts a beautiful parade
in which we walk in and I
get the pleasure of dressing
up fun just like everyone else.
>> You fly in on a broom
or are you in a car?
>> Leanne Marrama: I fly
in on usually a convertible
which is even better.
>> All right.
Let's take another call
from one of our viewers.
>> Leanne Marrama: Okay.
Great.
>> Here we go.
>> Hey, Leanne, I was
wondering do witches
and warlocks get along together?
>> Leanne Marrama: Absolutely.
Witches and warlocks
definitely get along together.
>> Just like husband
and wife, right?
>> Leanne Marrama: Just like
husband and wife but not quite.
>> But sometimes
they don't get along.
>> Leanne Marrama: Like
best friends, witches
and warlocks absolutely
do get along together.
Warlock is the word for male
witch conjurer or necromancer.
>> Witches, it's a
fascinating field.
>> Leanne Marrama: It
is a fascinating field.
>> What about children who
want to dabble in this?
Do you encourage it or not?
>> Leanne Marrama: Well,
every parent has to,
they have to honestly
take that on their own.
>> I would guess, Leanne,
most parents would freak
if they knew their kid
wanted to study witchcraft.
>> Leanne Marrama:
It's just a religion.
It's believing in -
>> -- but don't you agree?
They freak?
>> Leanne Marrama: Some do, some
do freak, but most of, I think -
>> -- you don't seem to
be a bad person at all.
>> Leanne Marrama: No.
>> -- you actually
would probably be fun.
>> Leanne Marrama: I go to
church, I sit in the woods,
we have a coven meeting in which
we talk about who we're going
to help and who we're going to
heal and what we need to get rid
of in our lives and we
connect with the seasons.
All of that is great for kids.
Paganism and witchcraft is
not a bad path for kids.
There's no words of the devil.
We don't hurt animals,
we honor animals.
It's actually safe.
So that, you know,
whether or not you're going
to raise your child within
the craft and if you're going
to raise your kid to
be a wiccan or however,
that's just like raising
your kids in any other faith,
you know, there's a beginning
step, there's a blessing
for babies, there is a
solemn event for weddings
and there's an amazing
thing that happens
when you die we do
beautiful funerals.
So we're just like
every other faith.
>> Unlike a Satanist who
I think promotes evil.
>> Leanne Marrama: Not all
Satanists promote evil.
Now, Satanists the LaVeyan
[phonetic] now you have a whole
different thing which I have
to say is completely different
on a level of faith, all right?
>> Are you one of them too?
>> Leanne Marrama: I am
absolutely not a Satanist,
but I know people who do because
Satanists if you're looking
at a LaVeyan Satanist -
>> Anton LaVeyan.
>> Leanne Marrama: Anton
LaVeyan, they're actually,
they believe in the
worshipping of self, okay,
that you put yourself
on a pedestal,
that you take care of yourself.
It would be un-Satanic
to hurt anybody
because it would not make
sense with their religion
because what it is it's
to put man above itself
and not disrespect other men.
>> But they worship the devil?
>> Leanne Marrama: Ah, LeVeyan
Satanists do not worship the
devil if you look at them,
they worship themselves
and the devil is more of a -
>> -- then why do they
call themselves Satanists?
>> Leanne Marrama: Because
I think it's a tongue
in cheek thing because they're
on some essence the energy
of Satan is self-worship.
I don't know.
I would say Satanism is
greatly misunderstood.
People I know that are LaVeyan
Satanists they love the animals,
they love their kids,
they love their lives,
they've never harmed anyone.
When you talk about Satan as
a living, breathing thing,
which is we, you know, witches
we don't believe in the devil.
We believe evil comes
from man-made, from man.
We make our own evil.
We go to war because of ego.
When you eliminate love from
any situation, that's the devil.
>> If I ran into you
in a supermarket,
would I know you were a witch?
>> Leanne Marrama: Maybe not.
I just sometimes wear black.
>> You just blend right in.
>> Leanne Marrama:
I blend right in.
I'm just like everybody else.
I just pray a little
different than everybody.
I worship a little different.
>> And you love people.
>> Leanne Marrama: I love people
and I'm a little extravagant.
I honor my dead daily and
that's something I think
that makes witches stand
out in society as a whole.
We honor the dead to such
a degree that they live
in our lives, that we
bring our dead close to us.
So that's why you see
I have skulls on me.
This is to bring
the dead in to me.
>> I love it.
Now if people want more
information on witchcraft
from you, what do they do?
>> Leanne Marrama: Okay, if
anybody wants information
on witchcraft from me, they
are more than welcome to check
out my Facebook page to go
to vesselofthedead.com
or hexwitch.com.
I work at a wonderful
storm in Salem owned
by Christian Day and it is -
>> -- he loves that store.
>> Leanne Marrama:
Yes, it's great.
Hex Old World Witchery.
>> How do they find
you on Facebook?
>> Leanne Marrama:
I'm Leanne Marrama.
Just Google my name and
you'll find me, guys.
I'm up for any questions
if you didn't understand,
if nobody understands what
I'm talking about here -
>> -- they'll learn it.
>> Leanne Marrama: Yeah.
>> How about a cackle
before we say goodbye?
>> Leanne Marrama: I
would love to cackle.
[Cackling] And your
little doggie too.
>> That's beyond belief.
What can I say?
[ Music ]